Katie b5/implement uv dependency cooldown (#3075)
opensafely-core/opencodelists: DEVELOPERS.md

playbook](https://bennett.wiki/tech-group/playbooks/opencodelists/) for how to
do those tasks on our infrastructure.

## Dependency management
We use [Dependabot](https://github.com/opensafely-core/opencodelists/blob/main/.github/dependabot.yml) and an [automated update workflow](https://github.com/opensafely-core/opencodelists/blob/main/.github/workflows/update-python-dependencies.yml) to keep our dependencies up to date.

Dependencies are managed with `uv`.

> ### Overview
> 
> See the [uv documentation](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/concepts/projects/dependencies) for details on usage.
> Commands for adding, removing or modifying constraints of dependencies will automatically respect the
> global timestamp cutoff specified in the `pyproject.toml`:
> ```toml
> [tool.uv]
> exclude-newer = "YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ"
> ```
> Changes to dependencies should be made via `uv` commands, or by modifying `pyproject.toml` directly, followed by
> [locking and syncing](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/concepts/projects/sync/) via `uv` or `just` commands like
> `just devenv` or `just update-dependencies`. You should not modify `uv.lock` manually.
> 

Reviewer: suggestion: A slight reordering to put the information on timestamps closer to where it continues to be discussed.

````suggestion
See the [uv documentation](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/concepts/projects/dependencies) for details on usage.

Changes to dependencies should be made via `uv` commands, or by modifying `pyproject.toml` directly, followed by
[locking and syncing](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/concepts/projects/sync/) via `uv` or `just` commands like
`just devenv` or `just update-dependencies`. You should not modify `uv.lock` manually.

Commands for adding, removing or modifying constraints of dependencies will automatically respect the
global timestamp cutoff specified in the `pyproject.toml`:
```toml
[tool.uv]
exclude-newer = "YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ"
```
````

Note that `uv.lock` must be reproducible from `pyproject.toml`. Otherwise, `just check` and `just check-lockfile` will fail.

> If either of these recipes fails with an error saying that the timestamps must match, you might have modified one file but not the other:

Reviewer: suggestion: A slight edit to make the [nouns more obvious](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/one/words#recognize_ambiguous_pronouns).

```suggestion
Note that `uv.lock` must be reproducible from `pyproject.toml`.

Otherwise, the `just check` and `just check-lockfile` recipes will fail with an error saying that the timestamps must match. You might have modified one of `uv.lock` or `pyproject.toml` but not the other:
```

  - If you modified `pyproject.toml`, you must update `uv.lock` via `uv lock` / `just update-dependencies` or similar.

>   - If you did not modify `pyproject.toml` but have changes in the `uv.lock` file, you should revert the changes to `uv.lock`, modify `pyproject.toml` as you require, then run `uv lock` to update the `uv.lock` file.

Reviewer: suggestion: Here's a list-based formatting of the same instructions to perhaps make it easier for the reader to see the individual instructions, and navigate where they are if following them.

(⚠️ It's difficult writing suggestions this way without a preview; please ensure the formatting is right if you apply the suggestion!)

```suggestion
  - If you modified `pyproject.toml`:
      - update `uv.lock` via `uv lock` or `just update-dependencies`
  - If you did not modify `pyproject.toml` but have changes in `uv.lock`:
      1. revert the changes to `uv.lock`
      1. modify `pyproject.toml` as you require
      1. run `uv lock` to update the `uv.lock` file.
```
